---
author: Gaël Blanchemain
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=7657
categories:
  - For lack of a better category

---
One of the blogs that I visit on a regular basis is Me – Who Am I?. The owner has nominated me for the award, Versatile Blogger Award. Thank you!  
I should know what the word, versatile, means but I decided to look it up anyway.  
“: changing or fluctuating readily : variable | : embracing a variety of subjects, fields, or skills ; also : turning with ease from one thing to another | : capable of turning forward or backward : reversible”  
Although more than half of my posts are my memoirs (of a sort anyway), I do like writing about other things, places and people too. As far as the ease I find in doing that is something that I am working on as I go.

**Like the other award I have (see the sidebar), there are rules set down to be eligible for this one.**

  * Thank the person who gave you this award.
  * Include a link to their blog.
  * Next, select 15 blogs/bloggers that you’ve recently discovered or follow regularly.
  * Nominate those 15 bloggers for the Versatile Blogger Award — you might include a link to this site.
  * Finally, tell the person who nominated you 7 things about yourself.

Here are 15 blogs that I follow:  
http://www.danielmiessler.com/  
_Note to nominees: You are under no obligation to accept this award. However, I hope you do._

Seven Things about Me  
I almost died from a liver infection I had when I was an infant. I wasn’t expected to live past the age of two. Obviously, the doctors’ prediction was wrong.  
I took ballet lessons when I was five years old. My mom pulled me out because it was making my flat feet worse.  
At my first run of college, I majored in accounting on the advice of a vocational counselor. I was terrible at it.  
I was brilliant enough to marry my first husband twice.  
I weighed more before my pregnancy of my son than I did after I delivered.  
Until I was nine years old, I couldn’t eat an entire hamburger.  
I have most people fooled about how much confidence I have.