---
title: Thank God, our life is a mess.
author: Gaël Blanchemain
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=8668
categories:
  - For lack of a better category

---
There&#8217;s a pile of clothes sitting by my bed. It&#8217;s been there for a week, and chances are that heap of shame will build up for another three days. Stained t-shirt, moldy work-out outfits, ugh&#8230;.

I could address the problem by sorting out the mess now, yet by the time I&#8217;m done with laundry, the kitchen&#8217;s sink will be full of saucy frying pans and floating crumbs. Again.

Cleaning the apartment is an endless task, everything is at least 30% messy, if not downright disgusting.

And the same goes for my unfinished task lists, abandonned novels and broken promises.

What was the last time you felt totally satisfied with a project?

Personally, I can&#8217;t recall, every thing I did was a bitter-sweet mixture of fortuitous achievements and failures, there&#8217;s always been a mismatch between how I wanted my life to be and how it actually treated me.

And it turned out to be a pretty good thing.

&#8220;Life is what happens while you have other projects&#8221;, said a famous guy whose messy life ended abruptly with seven woundshots.

He was right, not only life throws at us whatever it pleases, but it often does it in a way that forces a deep overhaul in our value system.

One of my best friends was once my worst enemy, it took 5 years working with him to tolerate his differences and to regard them as the qualities I lack: he&#8217;s patient when I&#8217;m not, tenacious when I slack off and detail oriented when I&#8217;m sloppy.

Spending time with him was a goddamn bootcamp: he mirrored my defects perfectly every day, and he also taught me that to him, my nastiest tendencies were also the qualities he so badly needed&#8230;depending on circumstances.

Is your current partner the one you had planned ten years ago? What about your friends?

I&#8217;d bet you didn&#8217;t draw them on your yearly life project chart, did you?

Do I stretch too far if I say that they made you grow by NOT being what you wanted them to be?

I guess that&#8217;s what I&#8217;m trying to say when I praise our mess, since what we label chaos is probably nothing else than what we need to grow: the fertilizer, and the magic too.

I don&#8217;t intend to chastize you on what outlook you should have on your life, you have your own personal mess to take care of, I don&#8217;t know what it contains, but rest assured that to my eyes, what you&#8217;d like to get rid of is also what makes you unique and interesting.